#summary Introduction to the java-coding-standards project.
#sidebar TableOfContents

<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

= Introduction =

The purpose of this document is to examine Java coding standards and conventions used throughout industry and to indicate the standards we adopt and practice.

Coding standards have existed in software development for quiet a while and they can cause division. There are those that advocate the use of standards and those who fight against. Both camps have valid arguments which basically stem from how the practise of 'coding standards' is implemented by the group/organisation advocating their use.

XP adovcates evolving your coding standards and involving the whole team. Within this coding standard document, we take this evolving approach and will try to communicate as best we can the reasons for adopting a given standard.

== Why Have Code Conventions ==

The code is very important to us as it is it that is turned into 'working software'.

 When it comes to software we value:
   * Working software: the software meets the customer expectations in terms of functionality and quality
   * Maintainable software: its easy to coprehend and make changes to the software

 Thus we value and want to encourage code with the following properties:
   * Readable/Understandable
   * Simple as possible

Because of this we believe that practising code standards and conventions can help towards our ultimate goal of working software.

== Other Java Coding Standards ==
 
 * <a href="http://java.sun.com/docs/codeconv/">Sun Java Conventions</a>
 * <a href="http://www.ambysoft.com/essays/javaCodingStandards.html">Scott Ambler/AmbySoft</a>

 see the JavaCodingStandardsMatrix